---
aliases: Memory
dg-publish: true
created: 20230221103101
updated: 20230221103101
---
# Memory
---
Man's memory is comparable to that of a computer. He has an instantaneous memory, and a long-term memory.

Memory is the corner stone of our existence. It determines the quality of our decisions and, therefore, our entire life.

The short-term memory is however limited. This is why briefings are given during important phases of flight in aviation. We actually put elements of the long-term memory into our short-term memory.

## Images
It's easier to remember images. That's why turning things we want to remember into images is an easy way to remember them.

See [[100 Zettelkasten/Words to Images\|Words to Images]].

## Principles
[[100 Zettelkasten/SEE Principle\|SEE Principle]]
[[4 Cs\|4 Cs]]

## Memory Systems
[[100 Zettelkasten/The Car Method\|The Car Method]]
[[100 Zettelkasten/The Body Method\|The Body Method]]
[[100 Zettelkasten/The Rhyming Method\|The Rhyming Method]]
[[100 Zettelkasten/The Shape System\|The Shape System]]
[[100 Zettelkasten/The Journey System\|The Journey System]]
[[100 Zettelkasten/Numbers to Words\|Numbers to Words]]
[[Art System\|Art System]]

## Presentation
When you present with the memory methods it is like you are reading from a teleprompter. You are not learning the information word-for-word but you are clearly remembering the structure.


## Plants
- [[10 Wiki/12 Notes/4 Cs - 20230122093529\|4 Cs - 20230122093529]]
- [[10 Wiki/12 Notes/Art Memory System - 20230127072040\|Art Memory System - 20230127072040]]




###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/plantation
Plantations:: 
References:: 
