---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-wiki/12-notes/anemometer-20230126110635/"}
---

# Anemometer
---
An anemometer is a device that measures wind speed and direction. The most common type of anemometer is the cup anemometer, which consists of three or four cups mounted on the end of arms that are attached to a vertical shaft. The cups are shaped like airfoils, which means they are shaped like airplane wings. As wind blows past the cups, the cups rotate around the vertical shaft, and the rotation is converted into a wind speed measurement.

There are also other types of anemometer, such as the vane anemometer, which uses a vane that rotates around a vertical axis to measure wind direction, and an ultrasonic anemometer, which uses the time difference of sound waves to measure wind speed.

## Light Aviation
In light aviation, the anemometer consists of a capsule in which the [[100 Zettelkasten/Total Pressure\|Total Pressure]] prevails, which expands the capsule. Around this capsule there is the [[100 Zettelkasten/Static Pressure\|Static Pressure]] which crushes it.

The variation in the thickness of the capsule thus makes it possible to obtain the [[100 Zettelkasten/Dynamic Pressure\|Dynamic Pressure]], and is connected to the needle of the anemometer allowing the [[100 Zettelkasten/IAS\|IAS]] to be displayed.

There are coloured arcs to visualize the speed ranges:
- **White arc** : full flap range, low limit : [[100 Zettelkasten/VS0\|VS0]], high limit : [[100 Zettelkasten/VFE\|VFE]]
- **Green arc**: normal smooth operating range not to be used in turbulent atmosphere, low limit: [[100 Zettelkasten/VS1\|VS1]], high limit: [[100 Zettelkasten/VNO\|VNO]]
- **No arc**: low limit: [[100 Zettelkasten/VNO\|VNO]], high limit: [[100 Zettelkasten/VNE\|VNE]]




###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/germinating 
Plantations:: [[10 Wiki/13 Plantations/Anemometric Instruments - 20230126111405\|Anemometric Instruments]]
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/Le Manuel de Pilotage d'Avion - 20230122071907\|Le Manuel de Pilotage d'Avion]]
