---
aliases: Barotrauma
created: 20230129063242
dg-publish: true
tags: []
updated: 20230129063242
---
# Barotrauma
---
Barotrauma is a type of physical injury that occurs as a result of changes in pressure. It can affect various parts of the body, including the ears, sinuses, lungs, and teeth.

Barotrauma is most commonly associated with air travel, diving, and other activities that involve rapid changes in air pressure. For example, when a person ascends or descends rapidly in an aircraft or while diving, the pressure inside the middle ear may change faster than the pressure in the surrounding environment, causing barotrauma to the middle ear.

In the lungs, barotrauma can occur when a person holds their breath during rapid changes in pressure, such as when diving or during a rapid ascent or descent in an aircraft. This can cause air to become trapped in the lungs, leading to over-expansion of the lung tissues and damage to the lungs.

Barotrauma can also affect the sinuses and teeth, leading to pain and discomfort.

In most cases, barotrauma is mild and temporary, and resolves on its own within a short period of time. However, in severe cases, barotrauma can cause permanent damage and may require medical treatment.


## Preventing Barotrauma
To prevent barotrauma, it's important to equalize the pressure in the middle ear, sinuses, and lungs during rapid changes in pressure. This can be done by yawning, swallowing, or using special techniques such as the Valsalva maneuver or the Toynbee maneuver.



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/mature 
Plantations:: [[100 Zettelkasten/120 MOC/Medicine\|Medicine]]
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/Le Manuel de Pilotage d'Avion - 20230122071907\|Le Manuel de Pilotage d'Avion]]
