---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-wiki/12-notes/big-bang-20230215065119/"}
---

# Big Bang
---
The Big Bang is the most widely held theory of the creation of the [[100 Zettelkasten/120 MOC/Universe\|Universe]].

It occurred 380,000 years before the universe became transparent.

## [[100 Zettelkasten/Inflation\|Inflation]]
A thousandth of a billionth of a billionth of a second after the presumed origin of space and time, what would one day become the whole of our visible Universe was a sphere ten metres in diameter. At this point, the temperature of the [[100 Zettelkasten/120 MOC/Universe\|Universe]] was a few billion billion billion degrees. All the places in the [[100 Zettelkasten/120 MOC/Universe\|Universe]] were in contact.

This inflation generated the [[Cosmological Background\|Cosmological Background]], which explains why it is uniform today.

If we try to go further back in time, we can't. Indeed, we are now in the period of the [[100 Zettelkasten/Planck Era\|Planck Era]].

## Disunification of the Forces
All the fields we know today were united in a single field, thus gathering [[Electromagnetic Field\|Electromagnetic Field]], [[100 Zettelkasten/Strong Interaction\|Strong Interaction]], [[Weak Interaction\|Weak Interaction]]. This field is called [[100 Zettelkasten/Inflaton\|Inflaton]].

All the mysteries of the [[100 Zettelkasten/120 MOC/Universe\|Universe]] point to this single field, called [[Quantum Gravity\|Quantum Gravity]].

## What did Cause the Big Bang?
We don't know. It can be just NOTHING.

Indeed, there was no time before the Big Bang. This means that there is no possibility of a creator, because there is no time for a creator to have existed in.

According to the no-boundary proposal, asking what came before the Big Bang is meaningless, like asking what is south of the South Pole, because there is no notion of time available to refer to. The concept of time only exists within our universe.



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/germinating 
Plantations:: 
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/L'Univers à portée de main - 2081346516\|L'Univers à portée de main]], [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/Brief Answers to the Big Questions - 1984819194\|Brief Answers to the Big Questions]], [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/Parallel Worlds - 1400033721\|Parallel Worlds]], [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/A Brief History of Time - 0553380168\|A Brief History of Time]]
