---
aliases: Bitcoin
created: 20230215071648
dg-publish: true
tags: []
updated: 20230215071648
---
# Bitcoin
---
Bitcoin is a digital currency, also known as a [[100 Zettelkasten/Cryptocurrency\|Cryptocurrency]], that operates on a decentralized network, meaning that it is not controlled by any central authority, such as a government or a financial institution. It was created in 2009 by an unknown person or group using the pseudonym [[Satoshi Nakamoto\|Satoshi Nakamoto]].

Unlike traditional currencies, which are issued by central banks, Bitcoin is created through a process called [[Mining\|Mining]], in which participants use powerful computers to solve complex mathematical equations in order to validate and process transactions on the network. As a reward for their efforts, miners are awarded newly created bitcoins.

Bitcoin transactions are recorded on a public ledger called the [[Blockchain\|Blockchain]], which is maintained by a distributed network of computers around the world. Each transaction is verified by a network of nodes, and once confirmed, it is added to the blockchain. The blockchain provides a secure and transparent way to store and transfer bitcoins, and allows users to track and verify transactions without the need for a trusted intermediary.

Bitcoin has gained popularity in recent years as a means of payment and a store of value, and is accepted by a growing number of merchants and businesses around the world. It has also been subject to volatility and controversy, with its price fluctuating widely and governments and regulators around the world debating its regulation and use.

## Characteristics
- Bitcoin works with a system called [[100 Zettelkasten/Proof of Work\|Proof of Work]]
- Every 4 years, the Bitcoin output for each mined block is divided by 2



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/germinating 
Plantations:: [[100 Zettelkasten/Cryptocurrency\|Cryptocurrency]]
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/Cryptoassets - 20230122071907\|Cryptoassets]]
