---
aliases: Black Hole
created: 20230215073900
dg-publish: true
tags:
- wiki/meta/random
updated: 20230215073900
---
# Black Hole
---
A black hole is a localized gravitational collapse. It consists of a horizon and a [[Singularity\|Singularity]].

It is impossible to escape from a black hole. Except at the quantum level:
* Particles can perform [[Quantum Leap\|Quantum Leap]].
* They can pass through the black hole and not through it at the same time.
* Antiparticles fall into the black hole while particles do not.


## Horizon
The black hole horizon is the point of no return. Once you have passed it, you can no longer escape its gravitational grip.

Our time accelerates when we cross the horizon. Thus, an outside observer will see our image frozen (slowed down), billions of years have passed, whereas for us it is only a few seconds.

We can't move across the horizon, we don't have enough energy.


## Evaporation
The more matter a black hole swallows, the more it starts to evaporate. Its radiation is called the [[Hawking Radiation\|Hawking Radiation]].

## Particles
A black hole emits particle depending on its temperature, depending on the mass. The higher the mass, the lower the temperature.


## Surface Gravity
A black hole is characterized by:
- Its mass
- Its angular momentum
- Its electric charge

With this, we can calculate something called the [[Surface Gravity\|Surface Gravity]].



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/germinating 
Plantations:: [[100 Zettelkasten/120 MOC/Astrophysics\|Astrophysics]]
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/L'Univers à portée de main - 2081346516\|L'Univers à portée de main]], [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/Brief Answers to the Big Questions - 1984819194\|Brief Answers to the Big Questions]], [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/Parallel Worlds - 1400033721\|Parallel Worlds]], [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/A Brief History of Time - 0553380168\|A Brief History of Time]]
