---
aliases: Blockchain
created: 20230216070318
dg-publish: true
tags: []
updated: 20230216070318
---
# Blockchain
---
A blockchain is a storage and transmission technology with no controlling body.

It makes information immutable and transparent to all users. It is impossible to erase its history.

In a blockchain, everything is linked with hashes.

## Questions to answer before starting a blockchain

### Public blockchains
- Will all parties run nodes or will some trust others?
- If the blockchain is backlogged, what impact might have this have on users?
- How will the project deal with forks and chainsplits?
- How will data privacy be achieved?
- How will operators comply with evolving regulations?

### Private blockchains
- Who will run the nodes? Why?
- Who is going to write blocks?
- Who is going to validate blocks and why?
- If this is about data sharing, why can’t a web server be used?
- Is there a natural central authority whom everyone trusts, and if so why aren’t they hosting a portal

### Both blockchains
- What data is represented on the blockchain and what data is ‘offchain?’
- What do the tokens represent?
- When a token is passed from one party to another what does this mean in real life?
- What happens if a private key is lost or copied? Is this acceptable?
- Are all parties comfortable with the data that is being passed around the network?
- How will upgrades be managed?
- What’s in the blocks?



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/mature 
Plantations::
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/Cryptoassets - 20230122071907\|Cryptoassets]]
