---
aliases: Carbon Monoxyde
created: 20230216083409
dg-publish: true
tags:
- wiki/meta/random
updated: 20230216083409
---
# Carbon Monoxyde
---
Carbon monoxide (CO) is a colorless, odorless, and toxic gas that is produced by the incomplete combustion of carbon-based fuels such as natural gas, coal, oil, and wood. It is also produced by motor vehicles, generators, and other equipment that burn fossil fuels.

Carbon monoxide is a dangerous gas because it can cause carbon monoxide poisoning, which can be fatal in high concentrations. When inhaled, carbon monoxide binds to hemoglobin in the blood, reducing the amount of oxygen that the blood can carry. This can lead to symptoms such as headache, dizziness, nausea, confusion, and shortness of breath. In high enough concentrations, carbon monoxide can cause unconsciousness and death.

Because carbon monoxide is odorless and colorless, it can be difficult to detect without proper equipment. It is important to have working carbon monoxide detectors in homes and buildings that use fossil fuel-burning appliances, and to ensure that all equipment is properly maintained and vented to the outside. Additionally, it is important to avoid running vehicles or other gasoline-powered equipment in enclosed spaces, as this can quickly lead to dangerous levels of carbon monoxide.



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/mature 
Plantations:: [[100 Zettelkasten/120 MOC/Chemistry\|Chemistry]]
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Goodreads/Le Manuel de Pilotage d'Avion - 20230122071907\|Le Manuel de Pilotage d'Avion]]
