---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-wiki/12-notes/chai-20230221040232/","tags":["wiki/courses/ilog"]}
---

# Chai
---
Chai is a popular assertion library for JavaScript that is often used in conjunction with testing frameworks like Mocha, Jasmine, or Jest. Chai provides a variety of assertion styles and interfaces for writing test assertions, making it easy to write clear and readable test cases.

Chai offers several styles of assertions, including the classic `assert` style, the BDD-style `expect` and `should` interfaces, and a plugin-based interface for custom assertion styles. It also provides a variety of built-in assertion methods, such as `equal`, `ok`, `deepEqual`, `include`, and many others, for testing values, objects, arrays, and more.

One of the key benefits of using Chai is its flexibility. Chai's assertion styles and interfaces can be mixed and matched to fit different testing styles and use cases. For example, the BDD-style `expect` interface can provide a more natural language syntax for writing readable test cases, while the classic `assert` style can provide a more concise and familiar interface for developers with experience in other testing frameworks.

Chai also has support for plugins and extensions, which allows developers to add custom assertion methods and behaviors to the library. This makes it possible to extend the library to handle specific types of testing scenarios or to integrate with other testing frameworks or libraries.



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/mature 
Plantations:: [[10 Wiki/13 Plantations/Node.JS - 20230221035727\|Node.JS]]
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Other/ILOG - 20230213025734\|ILOG]]
