---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-wiki/12-notes/clean-coding-20230302071329/"}
---

# Clean Coding
---
It is essential to code cleanly in order to be understood by other programmers, and also to understand your own code.


## Names
- Choose revealing names, even if they are long.
- Do not leave any false clues or possible double interpretations in the names.
- Write similar concepts in a similar way.
- Avoid clutter, such as "Data" or "Info".
- Choose searchable names (e.g. "MAX STUDENTS PER ROW").
- Use one letter names only for local variables.
- Do not code your names.
- Do not choose too clever names.
- Choose one word per concept.
- Choose names known to programmers.
- Use long names for long scopes, and vice versa.

### Class names
- Choose nouns or noun phrases.
- Avoid verbs.

### Method names
- Choose verbs or verb phrases.


## Functions
- Keep it short.
- Avoid too deep levels of indentation.
- Do only one thing.
- Everything a function does should be at the same level of abstraction.
- Choose a descriptive name.
- Don't be afraid of long names.
- Avoid arguments if possible.
- Do not use flag arguments, but create two functions.
- If a function must have many arguments, consider creating objects.
- Avoid side effects: a function should not perform hidden actions that change the system.
- Avoid output arguments.


## Exceptions
- Prefer exceptions to error codes.
- Extract try/catch blocks into their own functions.


## Comments
- Do not compensate for bad code with comments.
- The best comment is the one you can avoid writing.
- Sometimes you have to write legal comments.
- Some comments can be informative.
- A comment can :
	- Explain a decision.
	- Clarify an unclear argument.
	- Warn of consequences.
	- Predict something to be done (TODO comment).
	- Amplify the importance of a point.
- Avoid redundant or misleading comments.
- Avoid forced comments (force yourself to provide a document).
- Avoid logging comments.
- Avoid comments that repeat the obvious.
- Avoid positional comments (a succession of ////// for example).
- Avoid putting code in comments.
- Do not give global information in a comment.
- Do not include too much information in a comment.
- Comments should be carefully crafted and written in the best possible way.


## The Classes
- The details of the data should not be exposed, but should be exposed in abstract terms. In other words, no object should show its internal structure.
- Do not pass "null" to methods.
- Never return "null" to methods.
- They should contain private instance variables first, then public, then public functions.
- Classes must be small.
- The name of a class describes its responsibilities.
- A class must have only one reason to be modified.
- Each method of a class should manipulate as many attributes as possible (cohesion).
- Do not make a class dependent on its derived classes.
- Well-defined modules offer very small interfaces allowing to do a lot with little.



## Code Formatting
- If working in a team, agree on a common formatting.
- The level of detail in the code should increase as you move down the module.
- Separate groups of ideas with blank lines.
- Related concepts should be close together.
- Variables should be placed as close as possible to their initialization.
- Instance variables are declared at the beginning of the class.
- Two functions calling each other must be close.
- Two related concepts must be close.
- Short lines must be written.
- Assignment operators are spaced out.
- Indent the code to make the hierarchy visible.


## The Tests
- Whenever you write production code, you need code to test it.
- Test code is just as important as production code.
- Testing means you don't have to be afraid to change the code.
- One assertion per test.
- Tests should be fast.
- Tests should be independent.
- Tests should be reproducible in any environment.
- Tests should have a binary result, either passing or failing.
- Tests must be written just before the production code that allows them to pass.
- Test to boundary conditions.
- Do not ignore a test that does not work.

## General
- Explain in the code, it must be very explicit.
- You should not have several different languages in the same source code.
- Think about behaviour at the limits.
- Neutralizing safeguards presents a risk.
- Eliminate redundancies.
- Do not be inconsistent in your code.
- Delete unnecessary or unused code.
- Responsibilities must be placed correctly.
- Use explanatory variables.
- Understand the algorithms you create.
- Prefer polymorphism to conditions and switches.
- Replace magic numbers by named constants.
- Encapsulate conditional expressions.
- Do not be arbitrary, the structure of the code must be justified.
- Functions should be down to one level of abstraction.
- Avoid transitive navigation: a module should only know the modules it collaborates with.


## Design Principles
- Identify the aspects of your application that vary and separate them from what stays the same
- Program to an interface, not an implementation
- Favor composition over inheritance
- Strive for loosely coupled designs between objects that interact
- Classes should be open for extension, but closed for modification
- No variable should hold a reference to a concrete class. No class should derive from a concrete class. No method should override an implemented method of any of its base classes.
- Solve things the simplest way possible


These are just principles, and it's not mandatory to follow them. Sometimes it's better not to do!



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/germinating 
Plantations:: [[10 Wiki/13 Plantations/Programming - 20230221103654\|Programming]]
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Books/Clean Code - 0132350882\|Clean Code]]
