---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-wiki/12-notes/clustering-20230302071838/"}
---

# Clustering
---
Clustering is a type of [[100 Zettelkasten/Unsupervised Learning\|Unsupervised Learning]] in data science that involves grouping a set of objects in a way that objects in the same group (cluster) are more similar to each other than to objects in other clusters. Clustering algorithms do not rely on a pre-existing set of labeled data, but instead use some measure of similarity or distance between objects to identify clusters.

Clustering is commonly used in a wide range of applications, including market segmentation, image segmentation, text clustering, anomaly detection, and gene expression analysis, among others. Some commonly used clustering algorithms in data science include [[100 Zettelkasten/K-Means\|K-Means]] clustering, hierarchical clustering, and density-based clustering.

The choice of clustering algorithm and the evaluation of the resulting clusters depend on the specific problem and the characteristics of the data. Commonly used evaluation metrics for clustering include [[100 Zettelkasten/Silhouette Coefficient\|Silhouette Coefficient]], [[Davies-Bouldin Index\|Davies-Bouldin Index]], and [[Calinski-Harabasz Index\|Calinski-Harabasz Index]], which measure the compactness, separation, and overall quality of the clusters.

Clustering can also be combined with other techniques such as [[100 Zettelkasten/Dimensionality Reduction\|Dimensionality Reduction]] and [[Feature Extraction\|Feature Extraction]] to improve the quality and interpretability of the clusters. Clustering is a powerful technique in exploratory data analysis as it helps to identify hidden structures in the data, which can then be used for further analysis and decision-making.



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/mature 
Plantations:: [[10 Wiki/13 Plantations/Data Science - 20230221095743\|Data Science]]
References:: 
