---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-wiki/12-notes/control-tower-20230309073438/"}
---

# Control Tower
---
A control tower is a structure located at an [[Airport\|Airport]] that serves as the central command center for air traffic control operations. It is usually situated on the airport grounds near the runway and taxiway areas, giving controllers a clear view of the entire airport and its surroundings.

The primary role of the control tower is to manage the flow of air traffic in and out of the airport, ensuring safe and efficient operations. Air traffic controllers in the tower are responsible for directing aircraft during takeoff, landing, and taxiing, as well as monitoring the movements of vehicles on the airport grounds.

In addition to air traffic control, the control tower may also house other airport services and operations, such as weather monitoring, maintenance and repair, and communication systems. The tower is equipped with advanced technologies, including radar and communication equipment, to enable controllers to monitor and manage air traffic in real-time.

The control tower is staffed by a team of highly trained air traffic controllers who work in shifts around the clock to ensure the safe and efficient movement of aircraft. They communicate with pilots using standard radio procedures and work closely with other airport personnel to maintain a safe and secure environment for air travel.



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/mature 
Plantations:: [[10 Wiki/13 Plantations/Aeronautics Regulation - 20230215074203\|Aeronautics Regulation]]
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Books/Le Manuel de Pilotage d'Avion - 20230122071907\|Le Manuel de Pilotage d'Avion]]
