---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-wiki/12-notes/js-doc-20230221040534/","tags":["wiki/courses/ilog"]}
---

# JSDoc
---
JSDoc is a markup language and tool for writing documentation for JavaScript code. It allows developers to document their code using a simple and standardized syntax, and generates HTML or other formats of documentation based on that documentation.

JSDoc uses a syntax similar to that of JavaDoc and other similar tools, with a few JavaScript-specific extensions. For example, JSDoc allows developers to document the type of a function's parameters and return value using special tags, such as @param and @return. It also allows developers to document class and object properties, modules, and other aspects of their code using similar tags.

```php
/**
 * Adds two numbers.
 *
 * @param {number} x - The first number to add.
 * @param {number} y - The second number to add.
 * @returns {number} The sum of x and y.
 */
function add(x, y) {
  return x + y;
}
```

## jsdoc.json
```json
{
  "source": {
    "include": ["src"],
    "exclude": ["src/vendor"]
  },
  "tags": {
    "allowUnknownTags": true,
    "dictionaries": ["jsdoc", "closure"]
  },
  "opts": {
    "destination": "docs"
  },
  "plugins": ["plugins/markdown"],
  "templates": {
    "cleverLinks": false,
    "monospaceLinks": false,
    "default": {
      "outputSourceFiles": true
    }
  }
}

```

for generating documentation. Here's what each option does:

-   `"source"`: Specifies the source code directories to document. In this case, we are including the `src` directory but excluding the `src/vendor` directory.
    
-   `"tags"`: Specifies how to handle JSDoc tags. In this case, we are allowing unknown tags and specifying the built-in `jsdoc` and `closure` tag dictionaries.
    
-   `"opts"`: Specifies options for the output files. In this case, we are specifying the `destination` directory for the generated documentation.
    
-   `"plugins"`: Specifies plugins to use when generating documentation. In this case, we are using the `markdown` plugin.
    
-   `"templates"`: Specifies options for the generated documentation's HTML templates. In this case, we are disabling clever and monospace links, and specifying that the output files should include source files.

```bash
jsdoc src/my-file.js -c jsdoc.json
```


###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/mature 
Plantations:: [[10 Wiki/13 Plantations/Node.JS - 20230221035727\|Node.JS]]
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Other/ILOG - 20230213025734\|ILOG]]
