---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-wiki/12-notes/j-unit-20230213074716/"}
---

# JUnit
---
JUnit is a framework for writing and running automated tests in Java. It provides a simple, easy-to-use API for writing tests, and a test runner that can execute those tests and report the results. JUnit is designed to be used by developers as they write their code, to help ensure that the code is working correctly and to catch any bugs or errors before they become a problem.

With JUnit, you can write tests for individual units of code, such as classes or methods, and run those tests automatically as part of your development process. JUnit tests are typically written in Java, and use annotations and assertions to specify the expected behavior of the code being tested.

For example, you might write a test for a class that represents a customer in a shopping application. The test would create an instance of the customer class, set its properties, and call its methods. JUnit provides a set of assertions, such as "assertEquals" or "assertTrue", that you can use to check that the class is behaving correctly.

When you run the tests, JUnit will automatically execute each test, and report whether the test passed or failed. If a test fails, JUnit will provide information about what went wrong, making it easier to debug and fix the issue.

JUnit is widely used in the Java community, and has been adopted by many organizations as a standard tool for writing and running automated tests. It is an open-source project, and is freely available for use in both commercial and non-commercial applications.

## Syntax
JUnit tests are written in Java and use annotations and assertions to specify the expected behavior of the code being tested.

Here is an example of a simple JUnit test:
```java
import org.junit.Test;
import static org.junit.Assert.assertEquals;

public class ExampleTest {
  @Test
  public void testExample() {
    int expected = 2;
    int result = 1 + 1;
    assertEquals(expected, result);
  }
}

```

In this example, the `@Test` annotation is used to indicate that the `testExample` method is a JUnit test. The `assertEquals` method is used to check that the result of the calculation `1 + 1` is equal to the expected value of `2`.

JUnit provides a variety of assertions for checking different types of expected behavior. For example, you can use `assertTrue` and `assertFalse` to check that a value is true or false, respectively. You can use `assertNull` and `assertNotNull` to check that a value is null or not null, respectively. You can also use `assertArrayEquals` to check that two arrays are equal.

In addition to annotations and assertions, JUnit provides a number of other features and tools to make it easier to write and run automated tests. For example, you can use the `@Before` and `@After` annotations to specify code that should be run before and after each test, respectively. You can also use the `@Ignore` annotation to temporarily ignore a test. JUnit also provides a test runner that can execute tests and report the results, making it easy to integrate JUnit into your development workflow.

## [[10 Wiki/12 Notes/Ant - 20230213071003\|Ant]]
We can use Ant to automatize the testing process.

```xml
<project name="MyProject" default="test">

  <path id="classpath">
    <pathelement location="build/classes"/>
    <pathelement location="lib/junit.jar"/>
  </path>

  <target name="compile">
    <mkdir dir="build/classes"/>
    <javac srcdir="src" destdir="build/classes"/>
  </target>

  <target name="test" depends="compile">
    <mkdir dir="build/test-reports"/>
    <junit printsummary="yes" haltonfailure="yes">
      <classpath refid="classpath"/>
      <formatter type="plain"/>
      <batchtest fork="yes" todir="build/test-reports">
        <fileset dir="build/classes">
          <include name="**/*Test.class"/>
        </fileset>
      </batchtest>
    </junit>
  </target>

</project>

```

In this example, the `compile` target compiles the source code into the `build/classes` directory. The `test` target depends on the `compile` target, so it will be executed after the source code has been compiled.

The `test` target uses the JUnit task to run the tests. The classpath for the tests is specified using the `classpath` path, which includes the `build/classes` directory and the JUnit library. The `batchtest` nested element is used to specify which tests to run, using a fileset that includes all classes in the `build/classes` directory that have names ending with `Test.class`.

The JUnit task is set to print a summary of the test results and to halt the build if a test fails, using the `printsummary` and `haltonfailure` attributes, respectively. The `formatter` nested element is used to specify that the test results should be output in plain text format.



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/mature 
Plantations:: 
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/ILOG - 20230213025734\|ILOG]]
