---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-wiki/11-wiki-inbox/command-20230308100143/"}
---

# Command
---
The Command pattern is a [[10 Wiki/12 Notes/Behavioral Patterns - 20230129065055\|Behavioral Patterns]] that encapsulates a request as an object, allowing you to parameterize clients with different requests, queue or log requests, and support undoable operations.

The Command pattern involves separating the request for an action from the object that performs the action. This separation allows for greater flexibility and decoupling in a system. In this pattern, commands are objects that contain all the information needed to execute a particular action, including the method to be called, the arguments to be passed to the method, and the receiver of the method (i.e., the object that will perform the action).

The Command pattern is typically used in situations where you need to perform an action on an object, but you don't know which object you will need to act upon until runtime. By encapsulating the command in an object, you can easily pass the object to the appropriate object and execute the command. Additionally, because the command object contains all the necessary information to perform the action, it can be easily serialized and transmitted across a network or saved to a file for later use.

The Command pattern is often used in conjunction with other design patterns, such as the Composite pattern, to create complex command structures that can be executed in a flexible and extensible manner.



###### META
Status:: #wiki/notes/mature 
Plantations:: [[10 Wiki/13 Plantations/Design Patterns - 20230221095926\|Design Patterns]]
References:: [[10 Wiki/14 References/Books/Dive Into Design Patterns - 20230122071907\|Dive Into Design Patterns]]
